# Performance Web II: Critical Path, HTTP/2 e Resource Hints

## Tópicos em destaque
* Uso do [WebPageTest](https://www.webpagetest.org/) para medir a performance de uma página web com o fim de melhorar a experiência para o usuário final. Vide [notas de aula](./notas-de-aula/Aula%201.4%20-%20Introdu%C3%A7%C3%A3o.pdf).
* [Critical rendering path](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Performance/Critical_rendering_path): The Critical Rendering Path is the sequence of steps the browser goes through to convert the HTML, CSS, and JavaScript into pixels on the screen. Optimizing the critical render path improves render performance.
* [HTML async Attribute](./notas-de-aula/aula%202.3%20-%20Async%20e%20setTimeout.pdf) - Veja esta explicação do [StackOverflow](./notas-de-aula/StackOverflow%20-%20Async%20and%20Defer.md)
* [Adiar execução de um script utilizando `setTimeout()`](./notas-de-aula/aula%202.3%20-%20Async%20e%20setTimeout.pdf)
* [Adiar execução de um video usando setTimeout](./notas-de-aula/aula%203.3%20-%20setTimeout%20para%20Video%2C%20Lazy%20Load%20e%20Throttle.pdf)
* [Lazy Load de imagens](./notas-de-aula/aula%203.3%20-%20setTimeout%20para%20Video%2C%20Lazy%20Load%20e%20Throttle.pdf) - Lazy loading is a strategy to identify resources as non-blocking (non-critical) and load these only when needed. It's a way to shorten the length of the critical rendering path, which translates into reduced page load times.
* [Throttle](./notas-de-aula/aula%203.3%20-%20setTimeout%20para%20Video%2C%20Lazy%20Load%20e%20Throttle.pdf) - Throttling is a technique in which, no matter how many times the user fires the event, the attached function will be executed only once in a given time interval.
* [Largura de banda e latência (RTT)](./notas-de-aula/Aula%204.5%20-%20Largura%20de%20banda%20e%20lat%C3%AAncia%20(RTT)%2C%20problemas%20da%20conex%C3%A3o%20mobile%2C%20TCP.pdf) - A latência acaba sendo o maior limitante no mundo real ao acessar página Web. Estudos mostram que aumentar a largura de banda para mais de 5 megas não faz diferença prática para acessar páginas. A largura de banda seria importante em cenários de baixar um volume grande de dados, como um streamming de vídeo por exemplo.
* [Problemas na conexão mobile](./notas-de-aula/Aula%204.5%20-%20Largura%20de%20banda%20e%20lat%C3%AAncia%20(RTT)%2C%20problemas%20da%20conex%C3%A3o%20mobile%2C%20TCP.pdf) Porque a conexão mobile é mais lenta?
* [TCP](./notas-de-aula/Aula%204.5%20-%20Largura%20de%20banda%20e%20lat%C3%AAncia%20(RTT)%2C%20problemas%20da%20conex%C3%A3o%20mobile%2C%20TCP.pdf) - Como o TCP afeta a performance WEB.
* [Eliminate render-blocking CSS in above-the-fold content](./notas-de-aula/Aula%205.5%20-%20Eliminate%20render-blocking%20CSS%20in%20above-the-fold%20content.pdf) - Above the fold for a website refers to the content a viewer sees before they scroll down. It's prime real estate that receives the most attention from your visitors because it's the first thing they see, which is why it should immediately pull the reader in.
* [Como o HTTP2 influencia a performance WEB?](./notas-de-aula/Aula%206.5%20-%20HTTP2.pdf) O http altera a estratégia para melhorar a performance WEB. Por exemplo, no HTTP/2, não precisamos mais nos preocupar tanto em concatenar todos os arquivos.
* [Server Push na prática](./notas-de-aula/Aula%207.3%20-%20Server%20Push%20na%20pr%C3%A1tica.pdf) - HTTP/2 Server Push allows an HTTP/2-compliant server to send resources to a HTTP/2-compliant client before the client requests them. Server Push is a performance technique aimed at reducing latency by loading resources preemptively, even before the client knows they will be needed.
* [Resource Hints](./notas-de-aula/Aula%208.4%20-%20Resource%20Hints.pdf): Resource hints are snippets of HTML code that give the browser a head start by prompting selected files to begin loading sooner than if the browser discovered those same files through the normal course of evaluating and loading the page.
